# CMPSCI_3130_P2
Sorting Algorithm Analysis:

In my program I calculated the times of the following sorting algorithms: selection sort, insertion sort, bubble sort, modified bubble sort (bubble sort that counts swaps), quicksort, and merge sort. The times of each algorithm was based on the size of the array as well as the type of array. The three types of array I included were a random number array, a sorted array, and a nearly sorted array. The nearly sorted array was sorted except for the multiples of ten. The array I sorted was a copy of one of the types of arrays mentioned above. I had to create a copy of the array to one the types each time I sorted it. This way each algorithm has the same array and I can get accurate time for each sorting algorithm. The results are shown below.(Graph not available). 

Through the random number array I can assume it’s an average case array. The average time complexity for the selection sort, insertion sort, bubble sort, and modified bubble sort is O(n^2). Through my data it showed that the modified bubble sort and bubble sort had fairly close times in correspondence to the size of the array. It seemed like the selection sort and insertion sort were faster than the bubble sorts, which is surprising because they have the same average time complexity. Both quicksort and merge sort have the average time complexity of  O(nlog(n)). In the data the results were so close the lines actually overlapped. 

Through the Sorted Number Array I can assume it’s the best case array. The best time complexity for both bubble sorts are O(n), whereas selection sort is O(n^2). But my data shows that as the array size got larger the time for selection sort was faster that the bubble sorts which was surprising. The best time complexity for quicksort and merge sort is O(n log(n)). Through my graphs it shows that the time complexity is true for both cases. 
